}Is Personality Consistent?}

       The recent debate over the consistency of personality began in 1968 with the publication of a book by psychologist Walter Mischel. He reported that personality is much less consistent from one situation to another than had been commonly believed. Thus, the correlation between any two behaviors presumed to represent the same underlying personality trait is relatively low. This means that one could not predict with confidence whether a person who scored high on the trait of generosity would behave in a generous manner in a given situation. Based on his review of research findings, Mischel concluded that behavior is influenced more by the situations in which we find ourselves than by any personality characteristics that we might possess. Though Mischel stimulated the recent debate over personality consistency, the issue is not new. Forty years before Mischel published his findings, psychologists reported research showing that children's honesty was inconsistent across situations. A child might cheat on a test but not in an athletic event, or lie at school but not at home.
       If personality is inconsistent across situations, why do we perceive it to be consistent in our everyday lives? First, we might confuse the consistency of behavior in a given situation over time with the consistency of that behavior across different situations. If a fellow student is consistently humorous in your psychology class, you might mistakenly infer that she is humorous at home and at parties. Second, we tend to avoid situations that are inconsistent with our conception of our personalities. If you view yourself as even-tempered, you may avoid situations that might make you lose your temper. Third, our first impression of a person can make us discount later behavior that is inconsistent with it. If someone is friendly to you the first time you meet but is rude to you the next time you meet, you might say that he was "not himself" today. And fourth, our perception of cross-situational consistency in others might reflect a powerful situational factor: our presence in their environment. If others adapt their behavior to our presence, we may erroneously infer that they are consistent across situations.
       These attacks on cross-situational consistency have provoked responses from those who claim there is more cross-situational consistency than Mischel and his allies believe. First, individuals do show consistency on certain traits. But how do we know which traits? One way to find out is to ask. People who claim to be consistent on a given trait tend to exhibit behaviors reflecting that trait across situations. In one study, students were asked to judge how consistent they were on the trait of friendliness. Those who claimed to be friendly across situations were, in fact, more consistently friendly than were students who did not claim to be—as [verified[ by their peers, their parents, and other observers.
       Second, cross-situational consistency in behavior depends on whether a person is a high self-monitor or a low self-monitor. High self-monitors are concerned about how people perceive them and adapt their behaviors to fit specific situations. Low self-monitors, by contrast, are less concerned about how people perceive them and do not adapt their behaviors as much. As a result, low self-monitors show greater cross-situational consistency in their behaviors than do high self-monitors. 
       Third, many of the studies that Mischel reviewed were guaranteed to find low cross-situational consistency, because they either correlated trait test scores with single instances of behaviors or correlated single instances of behaviors with each other. This would be like trying to predict your grade in a biology class based on your grade in a history class. The prediction of future behavior could be wrong because many factors influence your performance in any given situation. Similarly, a given personality trait is not the only influence on your behavior in a given situation.
       Psychologists have achieved greater success in demonstrating cross-situational consistency by using behavioral aggregation. In aggregating behaviors, you would observe a person's behavior across a number of situations. You would then determine how the person typically, but not necessarily always, behaves. A "humorous" person would be humorous in many, but not all, situations. When we predict how a person will typically behave, instead of how that person will behave in specific situations, the correlation between traits and behaviors becomes relatively high.
